
Return to frontpage

    Home
    Today's Paper
    All Sections
    News
    National
    International
    Opinion
    Business
    Sport
    Videos
    Features
    Sci-Tech
    Crossword

Cricket
Football
Hockey
Tennis
Races
Other Sports
Sport » Other Sports
August 18, 2016
Updated: August 18, 2016 11:14 IST
From Rohtak to Rio — the story of Sakshi Malik
Download Now - Play Any Video With MediaPlayer10. Free To Install & Use Forever! mediaplayer10.com
Ads by Google

    Internet Desk

Comment   ·   print   ·   T  T  
inShare28
Share
?
Sakshi Malik of India celebrates with her coach after winning the bronze medal.
Reuters
Sakshi Malik of India celebrates with her coach after winning the bronze medal.
TOPICS
 Rio Olympics 2016
sport
wrestling
Gritty woman wrestler Sakshi Malik ended India’s painful wait for a medal at the Rio Olympic Games by clinching the bronze in the 58kg category.

In the early hours of Thursday, India acquired its first medal of the 2016 Summer Olympics. Sakshi Malik was the one to do it for the country, whose athletic contingent has thus far flattered to deceive in Brazil, by capturing the bronze medal (through Repechage) in the 58-kg category of Women’s Freestyle Wrestling. After losing the Quarterfinal to eventual finalist Koblova Zholobowa, Sakshi went on to win the Repêchage against Mongolia’s Orkhon Purevdorj, and then Kyrgyzstan’s Aisuluu Tynybekova.

The medal is rendered all the more significant in that it was won after Vinesh Phogat, Sakshi’s wrestling peer in the 48-kg category, was forced to retire hurt early into her Semifinal bout after a promising display, earlier on Wednesday.

Sakshi Malik scripted history by becoming the first woman wrestler from India to bag an Olympic medal and only fourth female athlete from the country to climb to the podium at the biggest sporting event in the world. Overall, Sakshi has won India’s fifth wrestling medal in the Olympic Games. It is India’s 25th medal in Olympic Games.

Who is Sakshi Malik?

Born on September 3, 1992, in Rohtak, Haryana, Sakshi Malik has her supportive parents, Sudesh and Sukhbir, to thank for encouraging her in her unusual career choice.

The 23-year-old from Mokhra village began her training in wrestling as a 12-year-old under the guidance of Ishwar Dahiya at an akhara in the Chotu Ram stadium. Her grooming was helped along by having to fight a lot of boys, in a region where the sport was ‘not for girls’. In fact, Dahiya faced protests from locals when he took Sakshi under his wing.

The run-up to Rio

2010: By the age of 18, she had tasted victory at junior-level competitions. She won a Bronze at the 2010 Junior World Championships in the 59-kg category.

2014: She first came to the international limelight after taking home the Gold at the Dave Schultz International Wrestling Tournament (60-kg).

July-August 2014: Her professional international career began with a silver medal in the 2014 Commonwealth Games in Glasgow, courtesy two 4-0 bouts.

September 2014: She crashed out in the Quarterfinal at the World Wrestling Championships in Tashkent. But not before beating her Senegalese opponent 4-1 in the Round of 16.

May 2015: Then on to the Senior Asian Wrestling Championships in Doha, where she won the Bronze.

On that victory, she said:

“My silver at the 2014 Commonwealth Games is my personal favourite. Although I displayed some aggressive wrestling at the 2015 Asian Championships and clinched a bronze, my bout at Glasgow was more challenging.”

Following that, Sakshi booked her seat on the flight to Rio by winning Bronze in the Summer Olympics Qualifiers, defeating Chinese Lan Zhang in the semifinal, at Istanbul.

July 2016: She won 60-kg Bronze at the Spanish Grand Prix.

Read more: Gritty woman wrestler Sakshi Malik ended India’s painful wait for a medal at the Rio Olympics.

(With inputs from PTI)

Keywords: Sakshi Malik
RELATED NEWS
U.P. to confer Rani Laxmi Bai award on Sakshi MalikAugust 18, 2016
I would like others to take inspiration from her, says Sakshi’s fatherAugust 18, 2016
Sakshi Malik, championAugust 19, 2016
Sakshi wins bronze, ends India's medal droughtAugust 17, 2016
It's a result of 12 years of hard work, says Sakshi MalikAugust 18, 2016
Wishes pour in for Olympic medallist Sakshi MalikAugust 18, 2016
Modi congratulates Sakshi MalikAugust 18, 2016
More In: Other Sports | Sport
inShare28
Share
?
MORE FROM SPORTSTARLIVE
Rio silver medallist P.V. Sindhu, will be for grab during the high-profile Players’ Auction for the lucrative Premier Badminton League (PBL) tomorrow.
Marin, Sindhu & Saina to go under hammer for PBL 2
Till date, Vijender has a 100 per cent record of seven wins with six knockouts in 27 rounds.
Vijender to defend WBO title on December 17
Indian women's hockey team in action at the Rio Olympics.
Indian women's team gears up for next challenge
A file photo of boxers Jitender Kumar (L) and Akhil Kumar during an interview to the Sportstar in New Delhi.
Akhil, Jitender seek Haryana Police nod for comeback
More »
 
FROM AROUND THE WEB

    Smart way of investing, start a SIP Smart way of investing, start a SIP ABM MyUniverse®
    Credit Card Offers from Top Banks. Apply Now! Credit Card Offers from Top Banks. Apply Now! BankBazaar.com
    What Do the British Prime Minister and George Clooney Have in Common? What Do the British Prime Minister and George Clooney Have in Common? Mansion Global
    Khar's only Gated Community Starting at 6.68Cr* Khar's only Gated Community Starting at 6.68Cr* rustomjeeparamount-khar.in
    Pete Sampras Lists His Los Angeles home at $8.9 Million Pete Sampras Lists His Los Angeles home at $8.9 Million Mansion Global
    Calculate Your Premium in Seconds and Buy Health Insurance Today Calculate Your Premium in Seconds and Buy Health Insurance Today Religare Health Insurance
    4 Paralympic Athletes Just Ran the 1500m Faster Than the 2016 Olympic Gold Medalist. They're Also Partially Blind. 4 Paralympic Athletes Just Ran the 1500m Faster Than the 2016 Olympic Gold Medalist. They're Also Partially Blind. Men's Fitness
    Weightlifter Suffers Horror Hyperextension During Lift at Rio Olympics Weightlifter Suffers Horror Hyperextension During Lift at Rio Olympics Muscle & Fitness
    Focus Diagnostics Zika EUA Amended Focus Diagnostics Zika EUA Amended GenomeWeb 

MORE FROM THE HINDU

    The adventure begins The adventure begins 27/10/2016
    ‘I agree the hostility wasn’t quite right in Trisha’s character’ ‘I agree the hostility wasn’t quite right in Trisha’s character’ 05/11/2016
    Bengaluru water tanker driver crowned Mr. Asia Bengaluru water tanker driver crowned Mr. Asia 24/10/2016 

Recommended by
This article is closed for comments.
Please Email the Editor
 
You Might Also Like

    Over 1 million people have fallen in love with this language learning app! Over 1 million people have fallen in love with this language learning app! Babbel
    The Richest and Poorest US Presidents The Richest and Poorest US Presidents InsideGov | By Graphiq 

Recommended by
Most Popular
Most Commented
Performance of Indians at the Games
Jwala, Ashwini to part ways
Mahalakshmi stuns Vijayalakshmi; Padmini surges ahead
Each member of World Cup winning team to get Rs. 10 lakh
Anup Kumar to lead India in Kabaddi World Cup
Indian medal winners at Olympics
From Rohtak to Rio — the story of Sakshi Malik
President presents Rajiv Gandhi Khel Ratna Award to four athletes
Who is PV Sindhu — India's badminton heroine in Rio
India outmanoeuvres Iran, keeps its kabaddi crown

Group Sites
The Hindu
தி இந்து
Business Line
BL on Campus
Sportstarlive
Frontline
The Hindu Centre
Images
Classifieds
RoofandFloor




close
Recent Article in Other Sports
REGAINING GROUND: Eesha Karavade, who lost in the fifth round, bounced back with a win over Soumya Swaminathan in the National women’s chess championship in New Delhi on Tuesday.
Padmini prevails over Nisha, keeps lead
Using all her experience, S. Vijayalakshmi carved out a much-needed victory over a previously-unbeaten Mary Ann Gomes as the sixth round of... »

The Hindu: Home | Today's Paper | News | National | International | Opinion | Business | Sport | Videos | Features | Sci-Tech | Crossword |
The Site: | About Us | Terms of Use | Privacy Policy | Contacts | Archive | Subscribe | RSS Feeds | Site Map
Group Sites: The Hindu | தி இந்து | Business Line | BL on Campus | Sportstarlive | Frontline | The Hindu Centre | RoofandFloor |
STEP | Publications | eBooks | Images | Classifieds |
Comments to: web.thehindu@thehindu.co.in  Copyright© 2016, The Hindu

